# Using Krawler API

The problem with hooks is that they are configured at application setup time and usually fixed during the whole application lifecycle. It means you would have a to create an application instance for each pipeline you’d like to have, not so simple. This is the reason why krawler is mainly used as a command-line utility (CLI), where each execution setup a new application with a hooks pipeline according to the job to be done.

However, using the CLI, you can also launch it as standard wep application/API. You can then POST job or task requests to the exposed services, e.g. on `localhost:3030/api/jobs`.

When running the krawler as a web API or cron job note that it provides a healthcheck endpoint e.g. on `localhost:3030/api/healthcheck`. The following JSON structure is returned:
* `isRunning`: boolean indicating if the cron job is currently running
* `nbSkippedJobs`: number of times the scheduled job has been skipped due to an on-going one
* `error`: error object whenever the cron job has erroned

The returned HTTP code is `500` whenever an error has occured in the last run, `200` otherwise.

::: tip
You can add your custom data in the healthcheck structure using the [`healthcheck`](../reference/hooks.md#healthcheck-options) hook.
:::

# Command-Line Interface

## Internal API

 The underlying implementation is managed by the global **run(jobfile, options)** function:
* **jobfile**: a path to a local job file or a jobfile JSON object
* **options**:
  * **cron**: a [CRON pattern](https://github.com/kelektiv/node-cron) to schedule the job at regular intervals, e.g. `*/5 * * * * *` will run it every 5 seconds, if not provided it will be run only once
  * **proxy**: proxy URL to be used for HTTP requests
  * **proxy-https**: proxy URL to be used for HTTPS requests
  * **user**: user name to be used for proxy
  * **password**: user password to be used for proxy
  * **debug**: output debug messages
  * **sync**: activate [sync module](https://github.com/feathersjs-ecosystem/feathers-sync) with given connection URI so that internal events can be listened externally
  * **port**: port to be used by the krawler (defaults to 3030)
  * **api**: launch the krawler as a web service/API
  * **api-prefix**: api prefix to be used when launching the krawler as a web service/API (defaults to `/api`)

This function is responsible of parsing the job definition including all the required parameters to call the underlying services with the relevant hooks configured (see below).

## External API

The jobfile is the sole mandatory argument of the CLI and options are read from the CLI arguments with the same names as in the internal API or using shortcuts like this:

```bash
krawler --user user_name -p password -P proxy_url --cron "*/5 * * * * *" path_to_jobfile.json
```

A jobfile could be a JSON or JS file (it will be `require()`) and its structure is the following:

```js
let job = {
  // Options for job executor
  options: {
    workersLimit: 4,
    faultTolerant: true
  },
  // Store to be used for job output
  store: 'job-store',
  // Common options for all generated tasks
  taskTemplate: {
    // Store to be used for task output
    store: 'job-store',
    id: '<%= jobId %>-<%= taskId %>',
    type: 'xxx',
    options: {
      ...
    }
  },
  // Hooks setup
  hooks: {
    // Tasks service hooks
    tasks: {
      // Hooks to be run after task creation
      after: {
        // Each entry is a hook name and associated options object
        computeSomething: {
          hookOption: ...
        }
      }
    },
    // Jobs service hooks
    jobs: {
      // Hooks to be run before job creation
      before: {
        generateTasks: {
          hookOption: ...
        }
      },
      // Hooks to be run after job creation
      after: {
        generateOutput: {
          hookOption: ...
        }
      }
    }
  },
  // The list of tasks to run if not generated by hooks
  tasks: [
  ...
  ]
}
```

::: tip
When running the krawler as a web API note that only the hooks pipeline is mandatory in the job file. Indeed, job and task objects will be then sent by requesting the exposed web services.
:::

