# Contributing

The docs are all written in [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/).  If you've used GitHub, it's pretty likely you've encountered it before.  You can become a pro in a few minutes by reading their [GFM Documentation page](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/).

### Organizing Files

You'll notice that the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/krawler/docs) is organized in a nice logical file structure. A file is usually named after the entire chapter's topic. For example, the content related to the services is located in `SERVICES.MD`. 

Some of the chapters are split into multiple sections to help break up the content and make it easier to digest. You can easily see how chapters are laid out by looking at the `SUMMARY.md` file. This convention helps keep chapters together in the file system and easy to view either directly on github or gitbook.

### Table of Contents

The table of contents is automatically generated by gitbook from the [SUMMARY.md](https://github.com/kalisio/krawler/blob/master/SUMMARY.MD) file.  It's a nested list of markdown links.  You can link to a file simply by putting the filename (including the extension) inside the link target.

### Introduction Page

This is the root [README.md](https://github.com/krawler//blob/master/README.md) file. It's intent is to give the reader an elevator pitch of what krawler is and why we think it is useful.

### Send a Pull Request
So that's it. You make your edits, keep your files and the Table of Contents organized, and send us a pull request.

### Enjoy the Offline Docs
Moments after your edits are merged, they will be automatically published to the web, as a downloadable PDF, .mobi file (Kindle compatible), and ePub file (iBooks compatible).

### Share
We take pride in having great documentation and we are very appreciative of any help we can get. Please, let the world know you've contributed to the Weacast Book and let others know about your changes.
